.gitlab/merge_request_templates/bugfix.md, before:

**Thank you for your effort to contribute a bug fix to the Emailkasten project!**

## Checklist

To make sure that the projects code remains in a good and maintainable state, please check that your pull request complies with the CONTRIBUTING guidelines.

Please go through the following checklist to give us a quickstart when checking your pull request.

If you need help to get to your code to check all boxes, please submit the pull request in the best state you can reach yourself and we will help you to get it completed.

### Code style

[] I have sticked to the projects code style.

[] I have made my code as readable as possible.

[] I have sticked to the preferred commit message style.

### Code status

[] I have used the linting tools to check and clean up my code.

[] I have successfully run all test files on the latest commit.

### Tests

[] I have added test files to cover the bug so it can not be reintroduced.

### Documentation

[] I have provided docstrings with the code I added.

### Consistency

*If you can't check one of these please explain why the change was necessary in the  Explanations section.*

[] I have not changed the main configuration file (Emailkasten/settings.py) of the project.

[] I have not changed the configuration of linting tools.

[] I have not changed the tests for existing features.

[] I have not changed the CI/CD pipeline.

[] I have not changed the existing URL-paths of the application.

### Explanations

*Here you can go into detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
*Please put explanations as to why you were unable to comply to a certain guideline here as well.*


## Bug fixed

[] This merge request only contains a single bug fix.

[] I have fixed the bug reported in issue: ...

*OR*

[] I have fixed the following bug:


[] I have tested the fix on a running modified instance and the bug did consistently not occur.

I have added the following requirements to the project:

-
-

### Further Explanations

*Here you can go into further detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*

Commit message:

fix (repo): added guard question for docker files to mergerequest templates

.gitlab/merge_request_templates/bugfix.md, after:

**Thank you for your effort to contribute a bug fix to the Emailkasten project!**

## Checklist

To make sure that the projects code remains in a good and maintainable state, please check that your pull request complies with the CONTRIBUTING guidelines.

Please go through the following checklist to give us a quickstart when checking your pull request.

If you need help to get to your code to check all boxes, please submit the pull request in the best state you can reach yourself and we will help you to get it completed.

### Code style

[] I have sticked to the projects code style.

[] I have made my code as readable as possible.

[] I have sticked to the preferred commit message style.

### Code status

[] I have used the linting tools to check and clean up my code.

[] I have successfully run all test files on the latest commit.

### Tests

[] I have added test files to cover the bug so it can not be reintroduced.

### Documentation

[] I have provided docstrings with the code I added.

### Consistency

*If you can't check one of these please explain why the change was necessary in the  Explanations section.*

[] I have not changed the main configuration file (Emailkasten/settings.py) of the project.

[] I have not changed the docker related files in docker/*.

[] I have not changed the configuration of linting tools.

[] I have not changed the tests for existing features.

[] I have not changed the CI/CD pipeline.

[] I have not changed the existing URL-paths of the application.

### Explanations

*Here you can go into detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
*Please put explanations as to why you were unable to comply to a certain guideline here as well.*


## Bug fixed

[] This merge request only contains a single bug fix.

[] I have fixed the bug reported in issue: ...

*OR*

[] I have fixed the following bug:


[] I have tested the fix on a running modified instance and the bug did consistently not occur.

I have added the following requirements to the project:

-
-

### Further Explanations

*Here you can go into further detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
