.gitlab/merge_request_templates/feature_implementation.md, before:

**Thank you for your effort to contribute a new feature to the Emailkasten project!**

## Checklist

To make sure that the projects code remains in a good and maintainable state, please check that your pull request complies with the CONTRIBUTING guidelines.

Please go through the following checklist to give us a quickstart when checking your pull request.

If you need help to get to your code to check all boxes, please submit the pull request in the best state you can reach yourself and we will help you to get it completed.

### Code style

[] I have sticked to the projects code style.

[] I have made my code as readable as possible.

[] I have sticked to the preferred commit message style.

### Code status

[] I have used the linting tools to check and clean up my code.

[] I have successfully run all test files on the latest commit.

### Tests

[] I have added test files for the new functions of the code.

### Documentation

[] I have provided docstrings with the code I added.

[] I have added the feature I implemented to the documentation in */docs/source/rst* .

### Consistency

*If you can't check one of these please explain why the change was necessary in the  Explanations section.*

[] I have not changed the main configuration file (Emailkasten/settings.py) of the project.

[] I have not changed the configuration of linting tools.

[] I have not changed the tests for existing features.

[] I have not changed the CI/CD pipeline.

[] I have not changed the existing URL-paths of the application.

### Explanations

*Here you can go into detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
*Please put explanations as to why you were unable to comply to a certain guideline here as well.*


## Feature added

[] This merge request only contains a single feature addition.

[] I have added a feature requested in issue: ...

*OR*

[] I have added the following feature:




[] I have tested the new feature on a running modified instance.

I have added the following requirements to the project:

-
-

### Further Explanations

*Here you can go into further detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*

Commit message:

fix (repo): added guard question for docker files to mergerequest templates

.gitlab/merge_request_templates/feature_implementation.md, after:

**Thank you for your effort to contribute a new feature to the Emailkasten project!**

## Checklist

To make sure that the projects code remains in a good and maintainable state, please check that your pull request complies with the CONTRIBUTING guidelines.

Please go through the following checklist to give us a quickstart when checking your pull request.

If you need help to get to your code to check all boxes, please submit the pull request in the best state you can reach yourself and we will help you to get it completed.

### Code style

[] I have sticked to the projects code style.

[] I have made my code as readable as possible.

[] I have sticked to the preferred commit message style.

### Code status

[] I have used the linting tools to check and clean up my code.

[] I have successfully run all test files on the latest commit.

### Tests

[] I have added test files for the new functions of the code.

### Documentation

[] I have provided docstrings with the code I added.

[] I have added the feature I implemented to the documentation in */docs/source/rst* .

### Consistency

*If you can't check one of these please explain why the change was necessary in the  Explanations section.*

[] I have not changed the main configuration file (Emailkasten/settings.py) of the project.

[] I have not changed the docker related files in docker/*.

[] I have not changed the configuration of linting tools.

[] I have not changed the tests for existing features.

[] I have not changed the CI/CD pipeline.

[] I have not changed the existing URL-paths of the application.

### Explanations

*Here you can go into detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
*Please put explanations as to why you were unable to comply to a certain guideline here as well.*


## Feature added

[] This merge request only contains a single feature addition.

[] I have added a feature requested in issue: ...

*OR*

[] I have added the following feature:




[] I have tested the new feature on a running modified instance.

I have added the following requirements to the project:

-
-

### Further Explanations

*Here you can go into further detail if you need to clarify one of the statements above.*
